Physics also makes significant contributions through advances in new technologies that arise from theoretical breakthroughs. For example, advances in the understanding of electromagnetism or nuclear physics led directly to the development of new products which have dramatically transformed modern-day society, such as television, computers, domestic appliances, and nuclear weapons;[6] advances in thermodynamics led to the development of industrialization; and advances in mechanics inspired the development of calculus.
Astronomy is the oldest of the natural sciences. The earliest civilizations dating back to beyond 3000 BCE, such as the Sumerians, Ancient Egyptians, and the Indus Valley Civilization, all had a predictive knowledge and a basic understanding of the motions of the Sun, Moon, and stars. The stars and planets were often a target of worship, believed to represent their gods. While the explanations for these phenomena were often unscientific and lacking in evidence, these early observations laid the foundation for later astronomy.

According to Asger Aaboe, the origins of Western astronomy can be found in Mesopotamia, and all Western efforts in the exact sciences are descended from late Babylonian astronomy.[9] Egyptian astronomers left monuments showing knowledge of the constellations and the motions of the celestial bodies,[10] while Greek poet Homer wrote of various celestial objects in his Iliad and Odyssey; later Greek astronomers provided names, which are still used today, for most constellations visible from the northern hemisphere.
Plutonium-239 in a concealed warhead can be revealed by exposing it to gamma rays or neutrons. However, this means of detection would also reveal secret information about the design of the weapon, which must be kept from the inspectors to prevent nuclear proliferation.
A new detector that could improve the effectiveness of proton-beam cancer therapies has been developed by researchers in the UK and South Africa. The system tracks protons that have travelled through the body and gives medical physicists a detailed picture of how a therapeutic proton beam will interact with the treatment area. Having this information could lead to better cancer therapy and the team plans to build a prototype scanner that could eventually be commercialized.